---
layout: star_post
title:  "Right above Enif: Pegasus Globular Cluster"
date:   2020-07-18 21:19:21 +0700
location: "Dublin, CA"
observation: "13"
stars: true
new_spots: [{ name: "M15 - Pegasus Globular Cluster", isMessier: true, link: "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Messier_15", date: "July 18, 2020" }]
---

With one of my two precision, slow control handles on my Vixen Porta II mount pretty much disfunctional and the NeoWise comet still hidden, it was a bit of a rough start. The area I observe in is also highly light polluted, so even though I can see the brightest stars, since I have a reflector and star hop, it can be hard to find anything way out on its own. So, a large chunk of my time was the unsuccessful star hopping, hopping to see X nebula because Y person on quora said it's an easy find with binoculars. 

That being said, I did see the usual suspects:
* Andromeda Galaxy (this may actually be something else because it's kind of small... will have to see tomorrow)
* Hercules Globular Cluster
* Dumbbell Nebula

I certainly had some fun with the Dumbbell nebula today. For kicks I tried a combination of my 8-24mm eyepiece on top of my 2x barlow, my nightglow filter, AND my Nebula filter. It did not really add a whole lot, but I was able to see a faint green in the blur that filled my eyepiece (x163 magnification).

The highlight of the night was spotting the Pegasus Globular Cluster. To spot this you find Enif, I love my orangish stars (cough cough Mirach), and then go up. At first I was not quite sure I found it. It is a bit larger than a star and fuzzy. However, after checking out [this super useful website which simulates what objects look like with your equipment](https://astronomy.tools/calculators/field_of_view/), I am confident I can qualify this as a successful spot. 